1::Ad-hoc queries for optimized, real-time analytics --------------

When designing the schema of a database, it is impossible to know in advance all the queries that end 
users will perform. An ad hoc query is a short-lived command whose value depends on a variable.
Each time an ad hoc query is executed, the result may be different, depending on the variables in question.

2::Indexing appropriately for better query executions

In our experience, the number one issue that many technical support teams fail 
to address with their users is indexing. Done right, indexes are intended to improve
search speed and performance. A failure to properly define appropriate indices can and 
usually will lead to a myriad of accessibility issues, such as problems with query execution and load balancing.



3::Replication for better data availability and stability
When your data only resides in a single database, it is exposed to multiple potential points of failure, 
such as a server crash, service interruptions, or even good old hardware failure. Any of these
events would make accessing your data nearly impossible.



4::Sharding
When dealing with particularly large datasets, sharding—the process of splitting larger datasets across
multiple distributed collections, or “shards”—helps the database distribute and better execute
what might otherwise be problematic and cumbersome queries. Without sharding, scaling 
a growing web application with millions of daily users is nearly impossible.



5::Load balancing
At the end of the day, optimal load balancing remains one of the holy grails of 
large-scale database management for growing enterprise applications. Properly 
distributing millions of client requests to hundreds or thousands of servers can lead 
to a noticeable (and much appreciated) difference in performance.

1::Databases: Advanced database topics like 
database sharding, replication,
 and data modeling for complex applications.


2::: Logging and Monitoring: Setting up centralized
  logging and monitoring solutions
   like ELK Stack (Elasticsearch, 
   Logstash, Kibana), Prometheus,
    Grafana, or tools provided by cloud
 providers
  to track application health and performance.



  3:::A video streaming platform with real-time video encoding and transcoding


4:::A data visualization application using D3.js

5::State management:  Reducx Contect 


6::Authentication and authorization: 
