Q what is ZKEVM?
Ans:


Q How Program is Executed?

Program 

Compiler/Interpreter

Low-Level Instruction

Computer
(Machine)

Q how contract Program is Executed?

Ans: solcCompiler  -- bytcode  and ABI  

solcCompiler  -- bytcode  (Low level Instruction) -->EVM


Q Ethereum Virtual Machione ?

The Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) is a 
decentralized virtual machine that executes
smartcontracts on the Ethereum blockchain.

Smart contracts are written in high-level
 programming languages such as Solidity and
compiled into EVM bytecode. This bytecode can 
then be deployed to the Ethereum network
and executed by the EVM.


Q Zero Knowledge Proof ?

Ans:• A zero-knowledge protocol is a method by which one party 
(the prover) can prove to another party 
(the verifier) that something is true, without  revealing any
information apart from the fact that this specific statement is true.



Q zkEVM in one slide ?

Ans:: zkEVM  --- >Virtual Machine --->  zero Knowledge Proof and  EVM Compatible

ZKEVM -- > Privacy and Scalabity  

this zkEVM is Layer 2 Solution



Q Virtual Machine ?

In computing, a virtual machine (VM) is a software-based
 emulation of a physical computer that can run an operating system
 and execute applications as if it were a real
machine.


Q  EVM compatibility

• The EVM (Ethereum Virtual Machine) is the
 runtime environment in which smart contracts
deployed on the Ethereum network are executed.

• A virtual machine creates a virtual environment
 that behaves like a real computer system, including a virtual CPU, memory, storage, and other components.


Q Use Cases of zkEVM ?

Ans::DeFi Applications

NFT Marketplace

Gaming Industry



Q  What is Polygon zkEVM? 

Ans::Polygon zkEVM is the first zero-knowledge scaling solution 
that is fully equivalent to an EVM. All
existing smart contracts, developer tooling,
 and wallets work seamlessly. Polygon zkEVM
harnesses the power of zero-knowledge proofs in
 order to reduce transaction costs and massively
increase throughput, all while inheriting the 
security of Ethereum.




Q zkEVM working Example

Ans Jugal  -->  smartContract deployed your -->ZKEVM 

https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1JRM3RMytZp2ek0k4WB5X_qbi9_BKXo2-

https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1JRM3RMytZp2ek0k4WB5X_qbi9_BKXo2-

Q zkEVM working Example
Ans::: Smart Contract ---> Zk Proofs + Cryptographic Techniques -------> Validation

how is work ZKEVM  -->


Q zkEVM architecture ?
Ans::zkEVM architecture

The zkEVM is divided into three parts: an execution environment, proving circuit, and verifier
contract. Each component contributes to the zkEVM’s program execution, proof generation, and
proof verification.


• 1. The execution environment - As the name suggests, the execution environment is where
programs (smart contracts) are run in the zkEVM. The zkEVM’s execution environment
functions much like the EVM: it takes the initial state and current transaction to output a new
(final) state.


• 2. The proving circuit - The proving circuit produces zero-knowledge proofs verifying the
validity of transactions computed in the execution environment.


• 3. The verifier contract - ZK-rollups submit validity proofs to a smart contract deployed on the
L1 chain (Ethereum) for verification. The input (pre-states and transaction information) and
output (final states) are also submitted to the verifier contract. Then the verifier runs
computation on the provided proof


The smart contract is deployed on ZkEVM or EVM?

Ans::  The smart contract casn be deployed on both ZkEVM and EVM
 (Ethereum Virtual Machine), but there's a distinction between 
 the two.

1::EVM (Ethereum Virtual Machine) is the original virtual machine that processes smart contracts and runs decentralized applications (dApps) on the Ethereum blockchain. It's the runtime environment for Ethereum-based smart contracts.

2:::On the other hand, ZkEVM (Zero-Knowledge Ethereum Virtual Machine) is an extension of Ethereum that incorporates zero-knowledge proofs to enhance privacy and scalability. ZkEVM allows for confidential transactions and computations while preserving the security and decentralization features of Ethereum.